README.md, before:

<!--- left_trunc_DR --->

# Doubly Robust Estimation under Covariate-induced Dependent Left Truncation

This repository contains code that implements the estimators proposed in the paper 'Doubly Robust Estimation under Covariate-induced Dependent Left Truncation' by Yuyao Wang, Andrew Ying, and Ronghui Xu. 

The 'src' folder contains the functions that implement the estimators, and the R scripts under the root directory of this repository contains the main code for the simlation and data analysis involved in the paper with details listed below. 

In addition, the 'arXiv_20220814' folder includes the code for the simulation involved in the arXiv version of this paper: arXiv:2208.06836, the details of which are also described below.




## Simulation
 
### Simulatiom without right censoring

 - 'main.cox_naive_full.R': The main code for loading the simulated data sets and compute the dr, IPW.Q, Reg.T1, Reg.T2 estimators with `coxph()` for estimating the two nuisance parameters, as well as the naive estimator and the full estimator.
 
 - 'main.ltrcrrf.R': The main code for loading data and compute the 'cf' estimator with `LTRCforests::ltrcrrf()` for estimating the nuisance parameters
 
 - 'main_pl.R': The main function for computing the product-limit estimator.
 
 - 'main_visulize_simu_result.R': The main code for visualizing the simulation results.
 


 
### Simulation under right censoring

 - 'generate_seeds.R': Generate random seeds for simulating data sets and save the seeds.

 - 'c1_X.main_simu': The main code for simulation under the 'censoring scenario ('c1') that censoring can happen before left truncation'censoring before truncation' scenario. The estimators computed are the dr, IPW.Q, Reg.T1, and Reg.T2 estimators with coxph() for estimating the nuisance parameters, the cf-RF-RF estimator, as well as the naive and full estimators. 
 
 - 'c2.main_simu': The main code for simulation under the 'censoring scenario ('c2') that censoring is always after left truncation'censoring after truncation' scenario. The estimators computed are the dr, IPW.Q, Reg.T1, and Reg.T2 estimators with coxph() for estimating the nuisance parameters, as well as the naive and full estimators. 
 
 - The folder 'c1.OSG' contains the code for computing the bootstrap SE for the 'cf-RF-RF' estimator using parallel computing on OSG. 
 
 
 
## Applications
 
 - 'c1.main_CNS.R': The main code for analyzing the CNS lymphoma data.
 
 - Folder 'CNS_data' contains the CNS lymphoma data ("CNS_data.txt") from a study of methotrexate-based chemotherapy (Wang et al., 2015) and the code for analyzing this data set from Vakulenko-Lagun et. al. (2021), which are from the Supplementary material of Vakulenko-Lagun et. al. (2021).
 
 - 'c2.main_HAAS': The main code for analyzing the HAAS data. 






## Code for the arXiv version of this paper: arXiv:2208.06836

As we mentioned before, the folder `arXiv_20220814' contains the simulation code for the arXiv paper: arXiv:2208.06836.

 - 'simu_save.R' contains the code that simulates and saves the datasets.
 
 - 'main.cox_naive_full' contains the code that loads the simulated data sets, computes the estimates from the proposed estimators and their competitors, and saves the results.
 
 - 'plot_cox_naive' contains the code for visualizing the simulation results.

Commit message:

Changed the way to estimate F in 'c2' scenario

README.md, after:

<!--- left_trunc_DR --->

# Doubly Robust Estimation under Covariate-Induced Dependent Left Truncation

This repository contains the code that implements the estimators proposed in the paper 'Doubly Robust Estimation under Covariate-Induced Dependent Left Truncation' by Yuyao Wang, Andrew Ying, and Ronghui Xu. 

The 'src' folder contains the functions that implement the estimators. The R scripts under the root directory of this repository contain the main code for the simulation studies and data analysis.
In addition, the folder 'Scenarios1-7' includes the code for additional simulations under semiparametric models with asymptotic linearity in the arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.06836.




## Simulation
 
### Simulation without right censoring

 - 'main.cox_naive_full.R': The main code that simulates data sets and computes the 'dr', 'IPW.Q', 'Reg.T1', 'Reg.T2' estimators with Cox models to estimate the two nuisance parameters, the naive estimator that ignores left truncation, and the oracle full data estimator.
 
 - 'main.ltrcrrf.R': The main code that simulates data sets and computes the 'cf' estimator where the nuisance parameters $F$ and $G$ are estimated by the relative risk forest (Yao et. al. 2020). In particular, $F$ and $G$ are estimated using the `ltrcrrf()` function of the 'LTRCforests' R package.
 
 - 'main_pl.R': The main code that simulates data sets and computes the product-limit (PL) estimator.
 
 - 'main_visulize_simu_result.R': The main code that visualizes the simulation results.
 


 
### Simulation under right censoring

 - 'generate_seeds.R': Generating random seeds for simulating data sets and saving the seeds.

 - 'c1_X.main_simu': Simulation for the 'censoring before truncation' scenario ('c1') where censoring can happen before left truncation. The 'dr', 'IPW.Q', 'Reg.T1', and 'Reg.T2' estimators with Cox models to estimate the nuisance parameters, the 'cf-RF-RF' estimator, and the naive estimator and the oracle full data estimator are computed.
 
 - 'c2.main_simu': Simulation for the 'censoring after truncation' scenario ('c2') where censoring is always after left truncation. The 'dr', 'IPW.Q', 'Reg.T1', and 'Reg.T2' estimators with Cox models to estimate the nuisance parameters, the naive estimator, and the oracle full data estimator are computed.
 
 - The folder 'c1.OSG' contains the code for computing the bootstrap SE for the 'cf-RF-RF' estimator using parallel computing on OSG. 
 



### Code for additional simulations with semiparametric models 

As we mentioned before, the folder 'Scenarios1-7' contains the additional simulations in the arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.06836 where semiparametric models are used to estimate $F$ and $G$.

 - 'simu_save.R': The code that simulates and saves the data sets.
 
 - 'main.cox_naive_full': The code that loads the simulated data sets and computes the 'dr', 'IPW.Q', 'Reg.T1', and 'Reg.T2' estimators with Cox models to estimate the nuisance parameters, the naive estimator, and the oracle full data estimator.
 
 - 'plot_cox_naive': The code for visualizing the simulation results. 
 

 
 
## Applications
 
 - 'c1.main_CNS.R': The main code for analyzing the CNS lymphoma data.
 
 - Folder 'CNS_data' contains the CNS lymphoma data ("CNS_data.txt") from a study of methotrexate-based chemotherapy (Wang et al., 2015) and the code for analyzing this data set from Vakulenko-Lagun et. al. (2021), which are available in the Supplementary material of Vakulenko-Lagun et. al. (2021).
 
 - 'c2.main_HAAS': The main code for analyzing the HAAS data.
